>> Mike North: So that rounds out
our unit on client-side security.
So just as a recap,
we began with cross-site scripting.
We talked about cross-site request
forgery, CSRF, and we added a CSRF token.
We talked about clickjacking
where we took our iframe and
positioned it over another
button on the landing page.
A UI redress attack that tricks a user
into interacting with an application other
than the one that they think
they're interacting with.
And then finally we wrapped up
with subresource integrity,
where we learned to basically take assets
and kinda lock them into place, and
make it so that if those assets
change in content in any way.
We're going to basically fail secure and
we're gonna break, and
possibly like report that
something just went wrong and
looks someone's tampering
with your JavaScript or CSS.
So now, we're going to jump
into another are of security.
This can be another workshop in itself.
It's a deep, deep topic.
Networking is complicated and security
around it is similarly complicated.
I'm going to be focusing on a small
subset of areas that we as front end
developers and as application developers
need to be directly concerned about.
So first we're gonna talk about
a man in the middle attack.
And here's what a man in
the middle attack looks like.
The scenario we're setting out to
discuss here is the user they are.
They're a user of your app they're
currently in a Starbucks or somewhere.
They're on a public network and so
they're HTTP requests go from their
device to the Wi-Fi radio into
the router and then they go from that
router off to the Internet with
a lot of stuff happening in between.
So to stage a man in the middle
attack I'm gonna take advantage
of a couple of things.
The first is that your default device
settings on all of your laptops,
all of your tablets, all of your phones,
is that they remember which networks
they've been connected to in the past.
They remember this forever until
you go and you clear it out.
And the default setting is
that basically when you come
back to a network like this, of the same
name, you'll attempt to rejoin it.
It'll be like you just arrived back home,
wifi network is called Home,
let's hop back on that.
You don't have to, every single time
you get home, hop back on your wifi.
It just happens.
So they need to basically
hold on to this information.
Your devices need to hold on to this
information because it's part of how they
search for
networks that they may be able to join.
So I want to take a little break here and
show you something that's been
running in the background.
All right, so what I've got here,
this called a Wi-Fi pineapple.
It is a device that you can use for
penetration testing.
And I have been scanning all of
the devices that are currently in
the room here.
And they're all basically broadcasting
everywhere they've been, rIght.
So we've got a lot of
Xfinity customers in here.
I'm not sure Troy and Obbit the Motem, so
somebody in here knows what that means.
They've been in that network before.
So we've got MJG Workshop.
Obviously a lot of us have been there.
So we could keep going down and keep going
down, but this is a lot of different,
your devices are constantly asking to join
things that they've already joined before.
So I've done this before
at conferences and
you can basically find out the composition
of the audience of the room where you
could see, we've got some MEC employers,
a couple Googlers, LinkedIn employees,
cuz they're always saying,
LinkedIn corporate network.
Are you there there
LinkedIn corporate network?
So again, I've just been
listening here your devices have
been announcing themselves
this whole time.
So we're gonna take advantage of that too,
right?
Broadcasting what they are looking for.
The third thing we take advantage of is
the fact that when you join a public wi-fi
network, you trust that router
as the first DNS server in line.
DNS is called the domain name service and
it is what translates host
names into IP addresses.
So it may seem odd that like
you would trust some strange
router to translate host
names into IPs for you.
It has become kind of a necessary
thing if you wanna use WiFi networks,
because in order to see
a screen like this, and
to sort of click through and
actually get Internet access,
what these networks typically do
is something called DNS poisoning.
Where they say, all of your host
names now route to the router so
that you can hit this login page, right?
So they will basically send you to
a place where you can agree to terms and
conditions and you can proceed forward.
Until you do that,
you won't be able to get to the Internet.
So this is why most people don't
pick their own DNS server.
They leave their configuration as
the default that your device ships with.
>> Mike North: So
here's the basic idea behind this attack.
So a attacker comes along and
also connects to the Starbucks Wi-Fi.
They can then begin to send a series
of packets of garbage data to,
sorry let me start over.
So attacker arrives at the Starbucks.
They are going to do this reconnaissance.
They'll scan through and see what types
of networks is everybody asking for?
Where has everybody been before.
And they can pop up a network
name that seems familiar, right?
We've all joined the network
called airport free WiFi.
Probably every single one of our
device has that remembered and
would gladly join it again.
So then we send a bunch of garbage packets
to the connection between our target or
targets and the router basically
de-authenticating them from the router.
So we kinda interrupt them and
they drop that Wi-Fi connection.
At which point they kinda start scanning
around for networks they've seen before.
And eventually they are going to find
airport free Wi-Fi and the'll join us.
And now we have become
the man in the middle and
all plain HTTP traffic that the user
sends there that's gonna basically
go from their client into us,
and then out to the Internet.
And that is why this device here
is made for this kind of attack.
It's why it has two antennas and
two Wi-Fi cards.
One to connect to the Starbucks, and
one to create the other network.
It is why you have two.
I can create and
be on a network at the same time.
So what kind of stuff can
an attacker do at this point?
They can mess with the responses, right?
As we saw this morning,
I was able to inject a little piece
of script into an http response.
So as soon as you can become a man in the
middle, you can cross-site script at will.
You can basically cross CSRF
at will because now you
can read that token as
it comes through you.
You can get that CSRF token and
you can write your script just perfectly,
so that they have that token there and
they work.
So this is a pretty
serious thing to happen.
It is our responsibility as developers
to do what we can to save our users from
getting into this situation.
Some things are under our control.
And also keep in mind, like you may not,
the most effective attacks
are ones where they'll gather information
and then use that information later on.
So it's not like you can put you
phone into airplane mode and
nothing happened up until that point and
so you're safe.
You dodged a bullet.
Probably not.